Rewrote the create expectations tutorial to reflect the 0.9.0 flow (#1088)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/tutorials/create_expectations.rst

Create Expectations
==============================

This tutorial covers the workflow of creating and editing expectations.

The tutorial assumes that you have created a new Data Context (project), as covered here: :ref:`tutorial_init`.

Creating expectations is an opportunity to blend contextual knowledge from subject-matter experts and insights from
profiling and performing exploratory analysis on your dataset.

Once the initial setup of Great Expectations is complete, the workflow looks like a loop over the following steps:

1. Data team members capture and document their shared understanding of their data as expectations.
2. As new data arrives in the pipeline, Great Expectations evaluates it against these expectations.
3. If the observed properties of the data are found to be different from the expected ones, the team responds by rejecting (or fixing) the data, updating the expectations, or both.

For a broader understanding of the typical workflow read this article: :ref:`typical_workflow`.

> Expectations are grouped into Expectations Suites. An Expectation Suite combines multiple expectations into an overall description of a dataset. For example, a team can group all the expectations about its ``rating`` table in the movie ratings database from our previous example into an Expectation Suite and call it "movieratings.table.expectations".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expectations are grouped into Expectations Suites. An Expectation Suite combines multiple expectations into an overall description of a dataset. For example, a team can group all the expectations about the ``rating`` table in the movie ratings database into an Expectation Suite and call it "movieratings.table.expectations".
```

> Each Expectation Suite is saved as a JSON file in the ``great_expectations/expectations`` subdirectory of the Data Context. Users check these files into the version control each time they are updated, same way they treat their source files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Expectation Suite is saved as a JSON file in the ``great_expectations/expectations`` subdirectory of the Data Context. Users check these files into version control each time they are updated, in the same way they treat their source files.
```

> The lifecycle of an Expectation Suite starts with creating it. Then it goes through a loop of Review and Edit as the team's understanding of the data described by the suite evolves.

Reviewer: this feels redundant given the description above, but no action needed.

We will describe the Create, Review and Edit steps in brief:

Create an Expectation Suite
----------------------------------------

> Expectation Suites are saved as JSON files, so you can create a new suite by writing a file directly. However the preferred way is to let CLI save you time and typos. Run this command in the root directory of your project (where the init command created the ``great_expectations`` subdirectory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expectation Suites are saved as JSON files, so you *could* create a new suite by writing a file directly. However the preferred way is to let the CLI save you time and typos.  If you cannot use the CLI in your environment (e.g., in a Databricks cluster), you can create and edit an Expectation Suite in a notebook. Jump to this section for details: :ref:`Jupyter Notebook for Creating and Editing Expectation Suites`.

To continue with the CLI, run this command in the root directory of your project (where the init command created the ``great_expectations`` subdirectory:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    great_expectations suite new

This command prompts you to name your new Expectation Suite and to select a sample batch of the dataset the suite will describe. Then it profiles the selected sample and adds some initial expectations to the suite. The purpose of these expectations is to provide examples of what properties of data can be described using Great Expectations. They are only a starting point that the user builds on.

The command concludes by saving the newly generated Expectation Suite as a JSON file and rendering the expectation suite into an HTML page in the Data Docs website of the Data Context.

> If you cannot use the CLI in your environment (e.g., in a Databricks cluster), you can create and edit an Expectation Suite in a notebook. Jump to this section for details: :ref:`Jupyter Notebook for Creating and Editing Expectation Suites`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

----------------------------------------

:ref:`Data Docs<data_docs>` is a feature of Great Expectations that creates data documentation by compiling expectations and validation results into HTML.

Data Docs produces a visual data quality report of what you expect from your data, and how the observed properties of your data differ from your expectations.
It helps to keep your entire team on the same page as data evolves.

Reviewing expectations is best done in Data Docs:

.. image:: ../images/sample_e_s_view.png

Edit an Expectation Suite
----------------------------------------

The best interface for editing an Expectation Suite is a Jupyter notebook.

Editing an Expectation Suite means adding expectations, removing expectations, and modifying the arguments of existing expectations.

For every expectation type there is a Python method that sets its arguments, evaluates this expectation against a sample batch of data and adds it to the Expectation Suite.

Take a look at the screenshot below. It shows the HTML view and the Python method for the same expectation (``expect_column_distinct_values_to_be_in_set``) side by side:

.. image:: ../images/exp_html_python_side_by_side .png

> The CLI provides a command that, given an Expectation Suite, generates a Jupyter notebook to edit it. It takes care of generating a cell for every expectation in the suite and of getting a sample batch of data. The HTML page for each Expectation Suite has the CLI command syntax in order to make it easier for users.

Reviewer: No change suggested...but this is pretty cool and should have its own feature page.

.. image:: ../images/edit_e_s_popup.png

The generated Jupyter notebook can be discarded, since it is auto-generated.

To understand this auto-generated notebook in more depth, jump to this section: :ref:`Jupyter Notebook for Creating and Editing Expectation Suites`.

> If you cannot use the CLI in your environment (e.g., in a Databricks cluster), you can create and edit an Expectation Suite in a notebook. Jump to this section for details: :ref:`Jupyter Notebook for Creating and Editing Expectation Suites`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Jupyter Notebook for Creating and Editing Expectation Suites
------------------------------------------------------------

> If you used CLI `suite new` command to create this Expectation Suite and then `suite edit` to edit it, CLI generated this notebook in the ``great_expectations/uncommitted/`` folder in your project. There is no need to check this notebook in. Next time you decide to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you used the CLI `suite new` command to create an Expectation Suite and then the `suite edit` command to edit it, then the CLI generated a notebook in the ``great_expectations/uncommitted/`` folder for you. There is no need to check this notebook in to version control. Next time you decide to
```

> edit this Expectation Suite, you will call CLI to generate a new notebook that will reflect the expectations in this suite at that time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
edit this Expectation Suite, use the CLI again to generate a new notebook that reflects the expectations in the suite at that time.
```

> If you do not use CLI, create a new notebook in the``great_expectations/notebooks/`` folder in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not use the CLI, create a new notebook in the``great_expectations/notebooks/`` folder in your project.
```

1. Setup
********************************************

.. code-block:: python

    from datetime import datetime
    import great_expectations as ge
    import great_expectations.jupyter_ux
    from great_expectations.data_context.types.resource_identifiers import ValidationResultIdentifier

    # Data Context is a GE object that represents your project.
    # Your project's great_expectations.yml contains all the config
    # options for the project's GE Data Context.
    context = ge.data_context.DataContext()

    # Create a new empty Expectation Suite
    # and give it a name
    expectation_suite_name = "ratings.table.warning" # this is just an example
    context.create_expectation_suite(

>         expectation_suite_name,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    expectation_suite_name)
```

>         overwrite_existing=True)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

If an expectation suite with this name already exists for this data_asset, you will get an error. If you would like to overwrite this expectation suite, set ``overwrite_existing=True``.

2. Load a batch of data to create Expectations
**********************************************

Select a sample batch of the dataset the suite will describe.

``batch_kwargs`` provide detailed instructions for the datasource how to construct a batch. Each datasource accepts different types of ``batch_kwargs``:

.. content-tabs::

    .. tab-container:: tab0
        :title: pandas

        A pandas datasource can accept ``batch_kwargs`` that describe either a path to a file or an existing DataFrame. For example, if the data asset is a collection of CSV files in a folder that are processed with Pandas, then a batch could be one of these files. Here is how to construct ``batch_kwargs`` that specify a particular file to load:

        .. code-block:: python

            batch_kwargs = {'path': "PATH_OF_THE_FILE_YOU_WANT_TO_LOAD"}

        To instruct ``get_batch`` to read CSV files with specific options (e.g., not to interpret the first line as the

>         header or to use a specific separator), add them to the the ``batch_kwargs`` under the "reader_options" key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        header or to use a specific separator), add them to the ``batch_kwargs`` under the "reader_options" key.
```

        See the complete list of options for `Pandas read_csv <https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.read_csv.html>`__.

        ``batch_kwargs`` might look like the following:

        .. code-block:: json

            {
                "path": "/data/npidata/npidata_pfile_20190902-20190908.csv",
                "reader_options": {
                    "sep": "|"
                }
            }

        |

>         If you already loaded the data into a Pandas DataFrame, here is how you construct ``batch_kwargs`` that instruct the datasource to use your dataframe as a batch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        If you already loaded the data into a Pandas DataFrame called `df`, you could use following ``batch_kwargs`` to instruct the datasource to use your DataFrame as a batch:
```

        .. code-block:: python

>             batch_kwargs = {'dataset': "YOUR_PANDAS_DF"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            batch_kwargs = {'dataset': df}
```

    .. tab-container:: tab1
        :title: pyspark

        A pyspark datasource can accept ``batch_kwargs`` that describe either a path to a file or an existing DataFrame. For example, if the data asset is a collection of CSV files in a folder that are processed with Pandas, then a batch could be one of these files. Here is how to construct ``batch_kwargs`` that specify a particular file to load:

        .. code-block:: python

            batch_kwargs = {'path': "PATH_OF_THE_FILE_YOU_WANT_TO_LOAD"}

        To instruct ``get_batch`` to read CSV files with specific options (e.g., not to interpret the first line as the

>         header or to use a specific separator), add them to the the ``batch_kwargs``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        header or to use a specific separator), add them to the ``batch_kwargs`` under the "reader_options" key.
```

    :width: 400px

4. Finalize
********************************************

Data Docs compiles Expectations and Validations into HTML documentation. By default the HTML website is hosted on your local filesystem. When you are working in a team, the website can be hosted in the cloud (e.g., on S3) and serve as the shared source of truth for the team working on the data pipeline.

To view the expectation suite you just created as HTML, rebuild the data docs and open the website in the browser:

.. code-block:: python

    # save the Expectation Suite (by default to a JSON file in great_expectations/expectations folder
    batch.save_expectation_suite(discard_failed_expectations=False)

>     # This step is optional, but useful - evaluate the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# This step is optional, but useful - evaluate the expectations against the current batch of data
```
